Atrial fibrillation, or a fib,
happens when the two upper chambers
of the heart, or the atria,
beat out of sync
with the lower two chambers, or the ventricles.
This is due to problems with the
electrical signal that controls the heartbeat.
Pulmonary vein isolation
is a common way to correct a fib.
A thin, flexible tube
called a catheter
is inserted into a vessel in the leg.
Sometimes a vessel in the neck is used instead.
The catheter is guided to the
upper chambers of the heart
to reach the openings
to the pulmonary veins.
Passed through the catheter
are very small tools.
One of these acts as a guide.
The other creates a small circular wound
on the wall of the atrium.
This is repeated for all four pulmonary veins.
Within a few weeks,
the wounds create scar tissue.
The scar tissue acts as a barrier
between the veins and the rest of the heart.
This keeps the veins’ electrical impulses
from disrupting the heart’s normal rhythm.
Once all the scar tissue is fully formed,
a patient’s heartbeat should return to normal.